* Newtonian Gravity Theory

** Overview
	 Newtonian gravity describes the attractive force between two masses.
	 It is a classical model that works well at low speeds and weak gravitational fields.

** Gravitational Constant
	 G = 6.67430e-11 m³ * kg⁻¹ * s⁻²

** Scalar Formula
	 F = G * (m₁ * m₂) / r²

	 Where:
	 - F = scalar magnitude of gravitational force
	 - G = gravitational constant
	 - m₁, m₂ = masses of the two bodies
	 - r = distance between their centers

** Vector Form
	 To apply direction:
	 - r⃗ = pos₂ - pos₁ (displacement vector from A to B)
	 - r̂ = normalize(r⃗) (unit direction vector)
	 - F⃗ = r̂ * F

	 This yields the directional gravitational force vector between the two bodies.

** Energy in Newtonian Gravity
*** Kinetic Energy (KE)
		KE = ½ * m * v²  
		- Energy due to motion  
		- Tracked per particle

*** Potential Energy (PE)
		PE = -G * (m₁ * m₂) / r  
		- Gravitational potential between two particles  
		- Negative value reflects bound systems  
		- Summed over all unique particle pairs

*** Total Mechanical Energy
		E_total = ∑ KE + ∑ PE  
		- Should be conserved in an isolated system  
		- Useful for debugging force accuracy and integration drift

** Collision Handling in Simulation
	 - Particles are given a radius to simulate size
	 - When particles overlap (distance < sum of radii), a collision response is triggered
	 - Elastic collisions are resolved using momentum-conserving velocity exchange

*** Velocity Projection (Dot Product)
		- For elastic collision, velocity is projected onto the collision axis:
		v₁ₙ = v₁ · n̂  
		v₂ₙ = v₂ · n̂  
		(where n̂ is the unit vector between particle centers)

		- These scalar projections represent how much velocity is aligned with the impact
		- Resulting normal velocities are exchanged based on mass to conserve momentum

** Assumptions and Limitations
	 - Assumes instantaneous action at a distance (no delay)
	 - Ignores relativistic effects (curved spacetime, time dilation)
	 - Breaks down in strong gravity fields or at high velocities

** Use Case in Unrealize Engine
	 - First force module to implement
	 - Validates simulation loop and vector math
	 - Simple baseline for comparing future models (relativistic, quantum, etc.)

** Integration Used
  We use Velocity Verlet integration for Newtonian gravity.
  - Choosen for its balance between accuracy and performance.
  - Helps reduce energy drift over time.
  - Predicts position with a(t), recalculates a(t+Δt), then updates velocity.

  Integration details omitted here to focus on higher-level theory.

** Constants and Initial Conditions

| Name               | Symbol | Value            | Unit                      | Notes                                  |
|--------------------|--------|------------------|---------------------------|----------------------------------------|
| Gravitational Const| G      | 6.6743           | m³ / (kg · s²)            | Newtonian gravity constant (scaled)    |
| Time Step          | Δt     | 0.00173611       | seconds                   | 0.00694444 / 4 (fixed timestep)        |
| Softening Factor   | ε      | 3.0              | unitless (distance units) | Prevents infinite force at short range |
| Sun Mass           | M☉     | 1_989_000.0      | kg (scaled)               | Set as static central mass             |

| Body    | Real Mass (kg)     | Sim Mass | Mass x | Real Dist (10⁶ km)  | Sim Dist | Dist x   |
|---------|--------------------|----------|--------|---------------------|----------|----------|
| Sun     | 1.989e30           | 1_989_000| 1e-24  | 0                   | 0        | —        |
| Mercury | 3.30e23            | 0.33     | 1e-24  | 57.9                | 40       | 1.45e6   |
| Venus   | 4.87e24            | 4.87     | 1e-24  | 108.2               | 70       | 1.54e6   |
| Earth   | 5.97e24            | 5.97     | 1e-24  | 149.6               | 100      | 1.50e6   |
| Mars    | 6.42e23            | 0.64     | 1e-24  | 227.9               | 150      | 1.52e6   |
| Jupiter | 1.898e27           | 1898.0   | 1e-24  | 778.5               | 520      | 1.50e6   |
| Saturn  | 5.68e26            | 568.0    | 1e-24  | 1434                | 960      | 1.49e6   |
| Uranus  | 8.68e25            | 86.8     | 1e-24  | 2871                | 1910     | 1.50e6   |
| Neptune | 1.02e26            | 102.0    | 1e-24  | 4495                | 3000     | 1.50e6   |
